---
layout: post
title: Perspective on the American Culture
tags: life 
---

The sad reality of the American life is the lack of culture. Arguably, there exists a culture in America. Yet, it is a violent one. It is a culture of self-centerededness and extreme hyper individualism. Which is a fertile ground for globalized capitalism that is suffocating humanity and depleting the planet. With a "me-first" attitude, Americans make political and financial decisions that exploit the earth and appropriate other cultures. They turn around and find the impact of their actions, and quickly justify their position in the world with a "save-the-world" attitude. Save the world from what? From whom? The saviour mentality only arises as a consequence of hyper-individualism. A misguided hope to reduce the individualist's damage to the world by introducing a new -clean and sustainable- force of individualism. A false hope that patterns of individualism can go on forever in a self-correcting trajectory. As if a sperm shot can keep on self-ejaculating without ever landing in a warm womb of reality. This ideological split from reality is caused by an anxious skeptical position towards the world. No matter how well intended the saviour is, they will cause harm. And so does everyone. The risk saviours take lies in believing they don't. And the real danger they bring comes in the form of dismissing cultural interrelations for the hope of progress and improvement. 

There lies an assumption in the statement "I dream of making the world a better place" that the individual could potentially know what is better. Historically, humans have deligated such responsibility to culture. To the ecological interconnectedness of human communities. Cultural values that emerge from emotional relations of human communities and circles are weather-proof. They might seem illogical, non-linear or to be a little more accurate, non-eurocentric. Yet they emerge from the material (maternal) world. And carry within themselves a perservative element of the geographical landscape of where they emerged. Human communities, collectively, see far more than an individual can. A cultural collective registers death, sadness and profit all together in an intergenerational record of fluid layman proverbial language. A cultural collective is grounded in reality and faith. Folk, ancient wisdom, religious activities are rather the product of such harmonious cultural process of human communities. To the individual, it is a delight to embody a communal cultural patterns. There is a wholeness to knowing that my ancestors recited the same verses I recite every morning for centuries and mellinias. There is wholeness to following cultural commandements that set forth the health of the community as an organism over the short term pleasures of an individual. Which I will admit, after being entrenched in a strictly communal culture, is a tough compromise. 

A dreamer individualist reads my words, then gets excited and hopes for an immediate community. A danger arises of joining communities with the hope of maintaining the same set of assumed freedoms or entitlements one seems to gain in an individualist society. When we live as communities we lose so much of our personal limited freedom. However, it is important to recognize that any gains of personal freedom in an individualist society are either exploitative or delusional. To give one entity more freedom, another has to suffocate (Americans can cheaply and freely ride their cars at the cost of oil wars in the middle east and alike. -A slave owner can spend his time liesurely writing a constitution about freedom and civic duty while his slaves suffocate doing all the labor for him.) The perception of freedom in the American consumerist society is often delusional. Choice of clothes brands that look the same and belong to the same rich families is not as much of a choice. You like to think you chose your new smartphone, however your choice was designed by the system. On one hand, and American is told to do whatever he/she wants. And on the other they are expected to meet tough hyper-productive demands to maintain their wellbeing. Extreme nightmarish perspective I admit. But it is important in this context to point to the fallacies of freedoms gained and sought by individualism in a world of limited resources. Communal and cultural values emerge from the earth and maintain a strong relationship to its limitations. The position of individualism is not a position of freedom from reality as much as it is a position of denial of reality. You see the mold, you tell yourself it is not there. And all that does is it makes the mold grow on you. 

I would love to be free and strong as much as Americans claim to be. That would be incredibly light and liberating. Yet, this world is heavy and counts for no unlimited freedom. In university halls, quantum mechanics lecturers teach their students that quantum particles are rather a fabric of relationships, and not a set of seperate spherical newotonian particles. A human individual is also a set of relationships to his/her community and culture. While a sense of self is healthy and is welcomed, even in the most rigid communal relationships, a desire to identify as a solid seperate particle moving freely in the world is disconcerting and only causes hurt and depression. 

When examining American culture, I face a tough call: What choice do born-American citizens have? Clearly there is a lack of grounded culture in this land. Clearly this society suffers the cost of presenting a strong wealthy image to the rest of the world. Wealthy of what? properties and goods? And Average American individual seem lonely and depressed. And one of the places to observe the epiphany of the split between owning objects and self-satisfaction is the aisles of Walmart. The aisles of Walmart (and its elitest alternative, Target) feel intense and heavy. Walmart shoppers overbuy cheap useless objects in an eternal battle to fill the void in their lives. To feel happinness. Yet they wear their dull expressionless faces. A painful scene to observe. Walmart represents, in my mind, the epiphany of individualism's split from reality. But what choice do the poor shoppers have? If they grew up in America, and were told by the intense American media machine to "buy to feel good." They believed what they were told. It never works, yet they don't know any better. What alternative do they have but keep doing what they are doing?

America is after all a moon colony that lost touch with its roots. Cut few leaves from a tree and plant them in a new soil, and watch them dry out and rott in a matter of days. Even if you overfed the cut leaves with fertilizers and injections to keep them alive and brilliant. They won't. They don't have roots and so is Americans disconnected from their cultural roots when fed with violent individualist ideals. And why have Americans lost touch with their cultural roots? America has always been violent and dismissive towards immigrants. A self perpetuating pattern of forcing an immigrant to become American and cut off his past tense experience. In modern day coporate culture for example, this is called "integration." Leave your cultural stink at the door is the disturbing message that immigrants have recieved in America. This pattern of cultural cleansing that immigrants have to go through is embodied in the adapting to the rigid english language. Language before and outside colonial rigidity and educational stiffness is the ever flowing collection of tones exchanged by groups of humans in their communities. Every language reflects the taste of air that surrounds its native speakers. Education and lingual institutionalization freezes language and culture. This freezing process seems legitimate from a scientific mindset that seeks to abstract and understand in isolation. However an institutionalized language doesn't leave room for humans to harmonize with each other or their surroundings. Which in the context of immigration forms the knife with which Americans cut the ties that immigrants could have with their past.

Dismiss your roots and focus on progress is also the modern day American motto. Progress and rapid growth is the priority even when reclaiming one's roots. If you are lost in this individualist war, consumerism offers you a quick sanitized elitist cultural alternative: Appropriation. You can do Yoga and breathe now, and forget of what it was to be depressed. Because of the speed and violence accompanying te profit oriented mindset of abusing other cultural practices and habits, a modern American recieves plenty of consumerist form but misses out on the substance of the adopted cultures. 

The current American attitude to cultural patterns and incubators is that of an English gardner to his flowers. While the flowers might look bright and sparring from the outside, they deep down lack the interconnectedness and ecology of a healthy collective organisms. His flowers are reliant on him for fertilizers and manicuring. A small perturbation, say a viral infection, will throw the beautiful flowers off guard and will send them off their threshold. In contrast, weeds present the toughest form of resilience. Even with the English gardner trimming the weeds every where he finds them using all his technologies and machines, they come back and appear in the most unexpected places. When the colonizer looked at the world and classified weeds and savages as the least, he dismissed the grounded and real for the sake of his own ideological escapism. He left us with a soulless world of linear metrics and standards of his creation. And the American attitude towards immigrants is of a simmilar nature. Taking from immigrants their labour and delighting in their cultural forms while dismissing their personal narratives and shutting down their weed-like lateral growth into America, its people and its land.

It is often thought that the American people should "help immigrants" because the rest of the world is harsh. The saviour mindset assumes that there is evil in the world that can be cleansed by bringing immigrants over and Americanizing (sanitizing) them from their cultural stink. While it is true that the rest of the world could be harsher than the American world, the fact of the matter is that American luxury comes at the cost of exploiting other nations. The true cost of a gas gallon in Texas is $2.1, the blood two Iraqi humans and the mental sanity of American veterans. Which is a viscious cycle of American intervention in the name of a delusional "making the world a better place." that in turn displaces communities and causes them to seek refuge in the "safe" west. First of all, if America is to help immigrants, America should leave them where they are as they are and slow down its anxiouss attempts to cool down worlds it knows nothing about. Secondly, immigrants are the seed from which could emerge a true American culture. Immigrants bring seeds of depth and healthy relationships to the earth from their homes. Fusion of immigrants into American fabric is a favor to and not from America. 






 




