---
layout: post
title: Quarantine Priviliges
tags: life goals and vision
---

This post is a gift to my dear friend [Madeeha Mian](https://www.instagram.com/xmadeeha/?hl=en). She has been surfing my website over the past few days and this in itself is encouraging for me to post more. Also, she has played a pivotal role in forming the philosophy I am about to unveil in this post.

Social distancing and quarantine have been (and still is) a great opportunity for reclaiming self-care. I can't help it but think of how this time represents "a record low FOMO." The social pressure to go to that party and participate in this event and hang out with others is all gone. I can be in my room staring at my screen from dawn to dusk and not feel the slightest sense of guilt! What an amazing opportunity.

Younger (than now) Asem has experimented with solitude and shelter-in-place. At the age of 19, I pondered upon the possible outcomes of the self-sanctuary experiment. I decided to quit social media and stop hanging out with people unless necessary for an entire summer. I read numerous books on Islamic and Arabic history. I learned a lot about Western philosophy. I studied, as in self-studied, engineering material that I was extremely curious about. I got into the consistent habit of working out. During that time, I have established a life-long tradition of knowledge-seeking and learning. I unlocked a deeper sense of discipline that I count on whenever I need it.

During the democratic uprisings of 2011 (aka the Arab Spring), our Egyptian government freaked out and decided to cut off the internet for 18 days. Everyone had to stay home as we weren't sure of how safe the country overall was. Besides there wasn't much going on. The country was under a revolutionary lockdown. The only reason you would go out was to protest. During this time, I met my neighbours for the first time. I created long-lasting memories with my family. It might have felt hard at the time, I may be was feeling antsy and dreadful that I can't check my Facebook notification. But in hindsight, I can't be more grateful for having lived a complete lockdown situation. 

COVID19 to me seems like a good ass blend of lockdown, solitude and safety. The scientists and the experts are telling us to stay at home to slow down the pandemic. It is now a moral responsibility to stay at home. That by no means that we should feel sad and frustrated when we stay home. We can instead view it as an opportunity to look inside and take care of ourselves. There is no burden or whatsoever to be anywhere at any time except in your house taking care of yourself. 

My self-care practices involve Reading non-fiction books, self-reflection and journaling, calling my family and friends as my time allows, dance practice, pole dance, riding my bike, running, working for as much as needed without feeling guilty, writing, and maintaining my website. All are feeding various aspects of myself. All are done with a simple goal in mind "I deserve care, and I can provide it for myself."

This is the part where Madeeha steps in. At the beginning of this quarantine, I found myself sometimes overwhelmed by trying to achieve non-quarantine goals. It was quite a bit frustrating to try to arrange a hangout with friends. Or daydream about going to a party. Or even try to stay engaged in social interactions. One night, Madeeha mentioned the concept of "dating yourself". And, man, that's all I needed to hear at that moment. I have been seeking external validation and social interactions at a time when I couldn't get that. Over the past couple of weeks, I have re-adjusted my goals. Instead of getting frustrated with not being able to do non-quarantine activities, I only seek internal validation which is highly attainable at this time. I am only busy with myself. And this enables me to care for others at a time when care is scarce, I am only able to provide it for others after providing it for myself.